Dr. Alvarello.
I worked with Mirella Ferrari at the University of Milano.
We can buy this on the way out when we're done.
Yes.
If you want to see some reproductions.
Tell us a little bit, this is the original library?
No, this is the library built in the 18th century, when the library becomes public, and not only for the chapter canonically, you know?
in latin is canonici the chapter capitulus is the priest just for the priest of the cathedral and in the 18th century so the library became public there is an original because in the second worm there you could
You could write it out.
Okay, the treasures.
Doctor, can I just see?
Petrarca has a scholar here.
Another scholar.
Petrarca, yeah.
They had letters by Cisco here.
My goodness.
No, the books of Petrarca went to Europe, to Milano, and someone in Ambrosiana.
Okay.
all of the 18th centuries the original library here in this spot no no the 18th library was near to the cathedral and only about the 18th century the books comes
They're coming here.
Thank you.
The ancient words in Italian.
The ancient is in Dovinello Veronese.
Okay?
It's written in Moldarabicus Corpus of Oraciones.
And this is in... Okay.
Famous regions, se pareba boves, alba patraglia,
It's the first record of Italian language in the 90th century.
How many writings are in this library, in this collection?
The library here is famous for the parchment books, not for the printed books.
The printed books
We think that came from the library of Scipione Maffei.
You mean the manuscript?
Yes.
As Bishop and Lo say, this is the more ancient library in the world because we have a manuscript with the date of subscription.
And what date is that?
The manuscript is the colophon in the last part of the manuscript.
The script wrote explicit vita beati paulini nomensi.
Monati Tebei, per scriptus, the books are written by Subconsulatus, at the name of the Agapitus Consul, by Ursicinus, scriptal writer.
Yes.
Which is very unusual.
The year is 517?
No, but he don't write 817, right?
I wrote this manuscript at the time of Agapito, the Consul Agapito.
And so we know that Agapito were in Verona.
Is that in English?
Can I write down some of that?
Yeah, yeah.
That's magnificent.
And it was here in Verona too?
Yes.
That's what's amazing about it.
You could read the Love, Codices, Latini Antiquioris, the volume 5.
I see.
The manuscript from Verona, would you say?
Some manuscript was written in Verona and some from the other country of Europe.
The Siglo d'Or, the most important time for the scriptorium in Verona, was the 19th century, because at Verona came two Carolingian bishops from Reichenau, the Costanza lake.
Okay.
There was a monastery where it was about also Valafredo Stabono and pupil of Rabanomaurus that was the most important in Carolingian Europe.
And so we have many manuscripts that came in Verona and also that by Verona go to other Europe.
You could read an important essay of Claudia Villa.
Claudia Villa.
Yes, Claudia.
Deutsch better than Italian?
No.
Better than Italian, actually.
No, because this essay has been translated in Germany.
Oh, maybe if I ever could do that.
In the review.
Okay.
What come here?
How was it collected?
Why did it come to Verona?
To the Spicciolati Library.
Were they purchased or were they given?
I don't understand.
Were they bought?
The books?
Yes.
But in the Carolingian period, medieval age, there was normal that the different library, church, or monasteries have some relations and exchange from copy
from copy book.
So these basically, when this was copied... This was copied in Verona.
And see this is, they did it for themselves.
It is the only books in all the world that we have, that we can date with precision.
Date with precision.
The only.
Because we have ancient book that Virgilius Latino,
Virgilio Sambrosianos in this library also.
But this is the one that we can date with precision.
Where was the scriptorium in Verona?
You said the scriptorium.
Was it here?
Was there a scriptorium here in Verona where they did the copying?
Yes.
Right here?
In this spot?
Not in this.
Not here, we don't know where, but near the cathedral.
Near the cathedral.
What was he writing?
What is the subject here?
The subject is the Vita Sulpici Severi, the life of Sulpicius Severo, no, the life of Martino, St.
Martino of Tours, written by Sulpicius Severo.
Italiopuscola, italiopuscola, that means that there is written other words like the Vita of the Paulus monk.
Now is he copying this or did he write it?
Yes.
He's copying this from earlier.
earlier from an earlier manuscript which is now gone probably so this was done here in verona yes he copied it and it went from there directly into this collection do you think that's what's fantastic about this 1800 years we can we can tell that in verona at this time there was a library production yes that's just magnificent about it extraordinary
1800 years.
That's what's fantastic about it.
But after the 90th century, the library becomes less important.
For Verona,
The most important period is the carolingian production.
Should we do this now or when we come back?
Yes, yes.
And also there is a bibliography full of Claudia Villa.
Oh, yes, the bibliography.
Claudia Villa, La Transitione du Arte.
The informative stage of the classical tradition.
Why don't we get these now so we don't have to come back here?
Can we repay these downstairs?
Should we come back and take them?
Do you want me to take them now, Doctor?
No, we'll come back, so we don't have to carry them.
We don't have to carry them with us.
It's wonderful.
Salone of Reviva Salone for conference.
Not to consult, not to read a book.
Not to read.
Not to read a book.
Okay.
Oh, the health conference?
Not a reading.
It's not a reading one.
I made a course of post degree at the University of Cassino and I am in concert with the Guillermo Cavallo, you know?
In Italy I think this is the big teacher
He's a teacher.
He writes many, many essays.
Yes, yes, of course, yes.
He teaches art at Rome.
But I study at Milano with Mirella Ferrari.
She's translated by the English, many books about the classical tradition, manuscripts, paragraph, or paragraph.
She speaks, yes.
You know, Reynolds, scribes, scribes.
It's exciting study.
So you have a lift here, which is... Yes, in the art rooms, these are the ancient manuscripts.
I understand.
How many ancient manuscripts here?
Did you give us how many manuscripts?
We could see the catalog.
Oh, good.
This is beautiful.
It's been modernized.
We ask to see the church of St.
Helena.
St.
Helena?
That is the church that was created from the 90th century.
Nice?
Yes.
Thank you.
Eleanor or Helen?
Santa Elena.
Okay, Helen.
In English, I think, Helen.
Take a picture of the doctor.
Okay, can I take your picture with my wife?
You can take one if they want to put in there.
We'll do better.
Do we have that church back there?
St.
George.
What is that date from?
18th century.
There is a very pinacoteca.
There is a lot of paintings.
What is that building on the hill back there?
I don't know.
There is the rooms of the priesthood.
I see, yes.
But that St.
George was built in the church of the chapter.
Okay.
That's right.